docs/src/main/paradox/consumer-metadata.md, before:

# Consumer Metadata

To access the Kafka consumer metadata you need to create the `KafkaConsumerActor` as described in the @ref[Consumer documentation](consumer.md#sharing-the-kafkaconsumer-instance) and send messages from `Metadata` (@scaladoc[API](akka.kafka.Metadata$)) to it.

The metadata the Kafka Consumer provides is documented in the @javadoc[Kafka Consumer API](org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.KafkaConsumer).

## Supported metadata

The supported metadata are

| Request | Reply | 
|---------|-------|
| ListTopics | Topics | 
| GetPartitionsFor | PartitionsFor |
| GetBeginningOffsets | BeginningOffsets |
| GetEndOffsets | EndOffsets |
| GetOffsetsForTimes | OffsetsForTimes |
| GetCommittedOffset | CommittedOffset |
   
@@@ warning

Processing of these requests blocks the actor loop. The KafkaConsumerActor is configured to run on its own dispatcher, so just as the other remote calls to Kafka, the blocking happens within a designated thread pool.

However, calling these during consuming might affect performance and even cause timeouts in extreme cases.

@@@   

## Example

Scala
: @@ snip [snip](/tests/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/FetchMetadata.scala) { #metadata }

Java
: @@ snip [snip](/tests/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/FetchMetadata.java) { #metadata }

Commit message:

Use some 2.0 features (timeouts) (#610)
* Make use of metadata request timeout
* Use close(Duration)
* Introduce configuration for new timeouts

docs/src/main/paradox/consumer-metadata.md, after:

# Consumer Metadata

To access the Kafka consumer metadata you need to create the `KafkaConsumerActor` as described in the @ref[Consumer documentation](consumer.md#sharing-the-kafkaconsumer-instance) and send messages from `Metadata` (@scaladoc[API](akka.kafka.Metadata$)) to it.

The metadata the Kafka Consumer provides is documented in the @javadoc[Kafka Consumer API](org.apache.kafka.clients.consumer.KafkaConsumer).

## Supported metadata

The supported metadata are

| Request | Reply | 
|---------|-------|
| ListTopics | Topics | 
| GetPartitionsFor | PartitionsFor |
| GetBeginningOffsets | BeginningOffsets |
| GetEndOffsets | EndOffsets |
| GetOffsetsForTimes | OffsetsForTimes |
| GetCommittedOffset | CommittedOffset |

These requests are blocking within the Kafka client library up to a timeout configured by `metadata-request-timeout` or `ConsumerSettings.withMetadataRequestTimeout` respectively.
   
@@@ warning

Processing of these requests blocks the actor loop. The `KafkaConsumerActor` is configured to run on its own dispatcher, so just as the other remote calls to Kafka, the blocking happens within a designated thread pool.

However, calling these during consuming might affect performance and even cause timeouts in extreme cases.

Please consider to use a dedicated `KafkaConsumerActor` to run metadata requests against.

@@@   

## Example

Scala
: @@ snip [snip](/tests/src/test/scala/docs/scaladsl/FetchMetadata.scala) { #metadata }

Java
: @@ snip [snip](/tests/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/FetchMetadata.java) { #metadata }
