docs/src/main/paradox/discovery.md, before:

---
project.description: Akka Discovery can be used to achieve Kafka broker discovery from the operations environment.
---
# Service discovery

By using @extref:[Akka Discovery](akka-docs:discovery/index.html) Alpakka Kafka may read the Kafka bootstrap server addresses from any Akka Discovery-compatible service discovery mechanism.

Akka Discovery supports Configuration (HOCON), DNS (SRV records), and aggregation of multiple discovery methods out-of-the-box. Kubernetes API, AWS API: EC2 Tag-Based Discovery, AWS API: ECS Discovery and Consul implementations for Akka Discovery are available in @extref:[Akka Management](akka-management:).

## Dependency

The Akka Discovery version must match the Akka version used in your build. To use the implementations provided by Akka Management, you need to add the desired dependency.

@@dependency [Maven,sbt,Gradle] {
  group=com.typesafe.akka
  artifact=akka-discovery_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$akka.version$
}

## Configure consumer settings

To use Akka Discovery with Alpakka Kafka consumers, configure a section for your consumer settings which inherits the default settings (by using `${akka.kafka.consumer}`) and add a service name and a timeout for the service lookup. The service name must match the one configured with the discovery technology you use. The timeout depends on the discovery technology used and your environment.

Note that consumers and producers may share a service.

```hocon
discovery-consumer: ${akka.kafka.consumer} {
  service {
    name = "kafkaService1"
    lookup-timeout = 10 ms
  }
}
```

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/tests/src/test/scala/akka/kafka/ConsumerSettingsSpec.scala) { #discovery-settings }

Java
: @@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ConsumerSettingsTest.java) { #discovery-settings }


## Configure producer settings

To use Akka Discovery with Alpakka Kafka producers, configure a section for your producer settings which inherits the default settings (by using `${akka.kafka.producer}`) and add a service name and a timeout for the service lookup. The service name must match the one configured with the discovery technology you use. The timeout depends on the discovery technology used and your environment.

Note that consumers and producers may share a service.

```hocon
discovery-producer: ${akka.kafka.producer} {
  service {
    name = "kafkaService1"
    lookup-timeout = 10 ms
  }
}
```

Scala
: @@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/scala/akka/kafka/ProducerSettingsSpec.scala) { #discovery-settings }

Java
: @@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ProducerSettingsTest.java) { #discovery-settings }


## Use Config (HOCON) to describe the bootstrap servers

The setup below uses the built-in Akka Discovery implementation reading from Config (HOCON) files. That might be a good choice for development and testing. You may use the @extref:[Aggregate implementation](akka-docs:discovery/index.html#discovery-method-aggregate-multiple-discovery-methods) to first use another discovery technology, before falling back to the config file.

@@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/scala/akka/kafka/ConsumerSettingsSpec.scala) { #discovery-with-config }

Commit message:

Use 'service-name' and 'resolve-timeout' to align with cluster bootstrap

docs/src/main/paradox/discovery.md, after:

---
project.description: Akka Discovery can be used to achieve Kafka broker discovery from the operations environment.
---
# Service discovery

By using @extref:[Akka Discovery](akka-docs:discovery/index.html) Alpakka Kafka may read the Kafka bootstrap server addresses from any Akka Discovery-compatible service discovery mechanism.

Akka Discovery supports Configuration (HOCON), DNS (SRV records), and aggregation of multiple discovery methods out-of-the-box. Kubernetes API, AWS API: EC2 Tag-Based Discovery, AWS API: ECS Discovery and Consul implementations for Akka Discovery are available in @extref:[Akka Management](akka-management:).

## Dependency

The Akka Discovery version must match the Akka version used in your build. To use the implementations provided by Akka Management, you need to add the desired dependency.

@@dependency [Maven,sbt,Gradle] {
  group=com.typesafe.akka
  artifact=akka-discovery_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$akka.version$
}

## Configure consumer settings

To use Akka Discovery with Alpakka Kafka consumers, configure a section for your consumer settings which inherits the default settings (by using `${akka.kafka.consumer}`) and add a service name and a timeout for the service lookup. Setting the `service-name` in the `akka.kafka.consumer` config will work, if all your consumers connect to the same Kafka broker.

The service name must match the one configured with the discovery technology you use. Overwrite the `resolve-timeout` depending on the discovery technology used, and your environment.

Note that consumers and producers may share a service (as shown in the examples on this page).

```hocon
discovery-consumer: ${akka.kafka.consumer} {
  service-name = "kafkaService1"
}
```

Scala
: @@snip [snip](/tests/src/test/scala/akka/kafka/ConsumerSettingsSpec.scala) { #discovery-settings }

Java
: @@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ConsumerSettingsTest.java) { #discovery-settings }


## Configure producer settings

To use Akka Discovery with Alpakka Kafka producers, configure a section for your producer settings which inherits the default settings (by using `${akka.kafka.producer}`) and add a service name and a timeout for the service lookup. Setting the `service-name` in the `akka.kafka.producer` config will work, if all your producers connect to the same Kafka broker.

The service name must match the one configured with the discovery technology you use. Overwrite the `resolve-timeout` depending on the discovery technology used, and your environment.

Note that consumers and producers may share a service (as shown in the examples on this page).

```hocon
discovery-producer: ${akka.kafka.producer} {
  service-name = "kafkaService1"
}
```

Scala
: @@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/scala/akka/kafka/ProducerSettingsSpec.scala) { #discovery-settings }

Java
: @@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/java/docs/javadsl/ProducerSettingsTest.java) { #discovery-settings }


## Use Config (HOCON) to describe the bootstrap servers

The setup below uses the built-in Akka Discovery implementation reading from Config (HOCON) files. That might be a good choice for development and testing. You may use the @extref:[Aggregate implementation](akka-docs:discovery/index.html#discovery-method-aggregate-multiple-discovery-methods) to first use another discovery technology, before falling back to the config file.

@@snip [conf](/tests/src/test/scala/akka/kafka/ConsumerSettingsSpec.scala) { #discovery-with-config }
