docs/src/main/paradox/home.md, before:

# Overview

The [Alpakka project](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/alpakka/current/) is an open source initiative to implement stream-aware and reactive integration pipelines for Java and Scala. It is built on top of @extref[Akka Streams](akka-docs:stream/index.html), and has been designed from the ground up to understand streaming natively and provide a DSL for reactive and stream-oriented programming, with built-in support for backpressure. Akka Streams is a [Reactive Streams](https://www.reactive-streams.org/) and JDK 9+ @extref[java.util.concurrent.Flow](java-docs:docs/api/java.base/java/util/concurrent/Flow.html)-compliant implementation and therefore @extref[fully interoperable](akka-docs:general/stream/stream-design.html#interoperation-with-other-reactive-streams-implementations) with other implementations.

This **Alpakka Kafka connector** lets you connect [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) to Akka Streams. It was formerly known as **Akka Streams Kafka** and even **Reactive Kafka**.

## Project Info

@@project-info{ projectId="core" }

## Matching Kafka Versions

|Kafka client | Scala Versions | Akka version | Alpakka Kafka Connector
|-------------|----------------|--------------|-------------------------
|[2.1.1](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/kafka/2.1.1/RELEASE_NOTES.html) | 2.13, 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0.4](release-notes/1.0.x.md#1-0-4)
|[2.1.1](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/kafka/2.1.1/RELEASE_NOTES.html) | 2.12, 2.11       | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0.1](release-notes/1.0.x.md#1-0-1)
|[2.1.0](https://archive.apache.org/dist/kafka/2.1.0/RELEASE_NOTES.html) | 2.12, 2.11       | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0](release-notes/1.0.x.md#1-0)
|2.0.x        | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0-M1](release-notes/1.0-M1.md)
|1.1.x        | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | [release 0.20+](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/releases)
|1.0.x        | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | [release 0.20+](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/releases)
|0.11.x       | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | [release 0.19](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/milestone/19?closed=1)

@@@ note

As Kafka's client protocol negotiates the version to use with the Kafka broker, you may use a Kafka client version that is different than the Kafka broker's version.

These client can communicate with brokers that are version 0.10.0 or newer. Older or newer brokers may not support certain features. For example, 0.10.0 brokers do not support offsetsForTimes, because this feature was added in version 0.10.1. You will receive an UnsupportedVersionException when invoking an API that is not available on the running broker version.

-- [Javadoc for `KafkaConsumer`](https://kafka.apache.org/21/javadoc/index.html?org/apache/kafka/clients/consumer/KafkaConsumer.html) 

@@@

## Dependencies

@@dependency [Maven,sbt,Gradle] {
  group=com.typesafe.akka
  artifact=akka-stream-kafka_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

This connector depends on Akka 2.5.x and note that it is important that all `akka-*` dependencies are in the same version, so it is recommended to depend on them explicitly to avoid problems with transient dependencies causing an unlucky mix of versions.

The table below shows Alpakka Kafka's direct dependencies and the second tab shows all libraries it depends on transitively.

@@dependencies { projectId="core" }

* Akka Streams $akka.version$ @extref[documentation](akka-docs:stream/index.html) and [sources](https://github.com/akka/akka)
* Apache Kafka client $kafka.version$ @extref[documentation](kafka-docs:index.html) and [sources](https://github.com/apache/kafka)


## Scala and Java APIs

There are two separate packages named `akka.kafka.scaladsl` and `akka.kafka.docs.javadsl`
with the API for Scala and Java. These packages contain `Producer` and `Consumer`
classes with factory methods for the various Akka Streams `Flow`, `Sink` and `Source`
that are producing or consuming messages to/from Kafka.


## Contributing

Please feel free to contribute to Alpakka and the Alpakka Kafka connector by reporting issues you identify, or by suggesting changes to the code. Please refer to our [contributing instructions](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how it can be done.

We want Akka and Alpakka to strive in a welcoming and open atmosphere and expect all contributors to respect our [code of conduct](https://www.lightbend.com/conduct).


@@@ index

* [release notes](release-notes/index.md)

@@@

Commit message:

Fix package name; add links to Alpakka

docs/src/main/paradox/home.md, after:

# Overview

The [Alpakka project](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/alpakka/current/) is an open source initiative to implement stream-aware and reactive integration pipelines for Java and Scala. It is built on top of @extref[Akka Streams](akka-docs:stream/index.html), and has been designed from the ground up to understand streaming natively and provide a DSL for reactive and stream-oriented programming, with built-in support for backpressure. Akka Streams is a [Reactive Streams](https://www.reactive-streams.org/) and JDK 9+ @extref[java.util.concurrent.Flow](java-docs:docs/api/java.base/java/util/concurrent/Flow.html)-compliant implementation and therefore @extref[fully interoperable](akka-docs:general/stream/stream-design.html#interoperation-with-other-reactive-streams-implementations) with other implementations.

This **Alpakka Kafka connector** lets you connect [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) to Akka Streams. It was formerly known as **Akka Streams Kafka** and even **Reactive Kafka**.

## Project Info

@@project-info{ projectId="core" }

## Matching Kafka Versions

|Kafka client | Scala Versions | Akka version | Alpakka Kafka Connector
|-------------|----------------|--------------|-------------------------
|[2.1.1](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/kafka/2.1.1/RELEASE_NOTES.html) | 2.13, 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0.4](release-notes/1.0.x.md#1-0-4)
|[2.1.1](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/kafka/2.1.1/RELEASE_NOTES.html) | 2.12, 2.11       | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0.1](release-notes/1.0.x.md#1-0-1)
|[2.1.0](https://archive.apache.org/dist/kafka/2.1.0/RELEASE_NOTES.html) | 2.12, 2.11       | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0](release-notes/1.0.x.md#1-0)
|2.0.x        | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | @ref:[release 1.0-M1](release-notes/1.0-M1.md)
|1.1.x        | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | [release 0.20+](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/releases)
|1.0.x        | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | [release 0.20+](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/releases)
|0.11.x       | 2.12, 2.11 | 2.5.x        | [release 0.19](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/milestone/19?closed=1)

@@@ note

As Kafka's client protocol negotiates the version to use with the Kafka broker, you may use a Kafka client version that is different than the Kafka broker's version.

These client can communicate with brokers that are version 0.10.0 or newer. Older or newer brokers may not support certain features. For example, 0.10.0 brokers do not support offsetsForTimes, because this feature was added in version 0.10.1. You will receive an UnsupportedVersionException when invoking an API that is not available on the running broker version.

-- [Javadoc for `KafkaConsumer`](https://kafka.apache.org/21/javadoc/index.html?org/apache/kafka/clients/consumer/KafkaConsumer.html) 

@@@

## Dependencies

@@dependency [Maven,sbt,Gradle] {
  group=com.typesafe.akka
  artifact=akka-stream-kafka_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

This connector depends on Akka 2.5.x and note that it is important that all `akka-*` dependencies are in the same version, so it is recommended to depend on them explicitly to avoid problems with transient dependencies causing an unlucky mix of versions.

The table below shows Alpakka Kafka's direct dependencies and the second tab shows all libraries it depends on transitively.

@@dependencies { projectId="core" }

* Akka Streams $akka.version$ @extref[documentation](akka-docs:stream/index.html) and [sources](https://github.com/akka/akka)
* Apache Kafka client $kafka.version$ @extref[documentation](kafka-docs:index.html) and [sources](https://github.com/apache/kafka)


## Scala and Java APIs

Following Akka's conventions there are two separate packages named `akka.kafka.scaladsl` and `akka.kafka.javadsl`
with the API for Scala and Java. These packages contain `Producer` and `Consumer`
classes with factory methods for the various Akka Streams `Flow`, `Sink` and `Source`
that are producing or consuming messages to/from Kafka.


## Examples

A few self-contained examples using Alpakka are available as [Alpakka Samples](https://akka.io/alpakka-samples/).

To read and see how others use Alpakka see the [Alpakka documentation's Webinars, Presentations and Articles](https://doc.akka.io/docs/alpakka/current/other-docs/webinars-presentations-articles.html) listing.


## Contributing

Please feel free to contribute to Alpakka and the Alpakka Kafka connector by reporting issues you identify, or by suggesting changes to the code. Please refer to our [contributing instructions](https://github.com/akka/reactive-kafka/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how it can be done.

We want Akka and Alpakka to strive in a welcoming and open atmosphere and expect all contributors to respect our [code of conduct](https://www.lightbend.com/conduct).


@@@ index

* [release notes](release-notes/index.md)

@@@
